---
layout: post
title: Lots of thanks and a bit of story
date: 2019-04-17 20:40 -0400
---

Here is a short story of how this theme came to be, the many great tools i came
to know in the process, and the places and people i stole ideas from.

So i decided it was time to have a personal web page, got from
[github-pages](https://guides.github.com/features/pages/) to
[jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) and within
an hour i was completely convinced it was the way to go. I then started looking
at personal pages from contributors to repos I'm interested in, trying to make
my mind about what kind of site i wanted. I am not much of a writer, so the
common layout in which the home page is a blog was not well suited for me. I
found [this page](https://paulstaab.de/) by [Paul
Staab](https://github.com/paulstaab) and new that was the kind of layout i
needed. A simple home page with a nice background image, and flexibility to
include blog--like pages in the navbar. However the rest of that theme didn't
quite fit what i had in mind.

Looking for similar jekyll themes i came accross two outstanding ones that
almost covered what i wanted: [Moon](https://taylantatli.github.io/Moon/), by
[Taylan Tatli](http://taylantatli.github.io/); and [Type on
Strap](https://sylhare.github.io/Type-on-Strap/), by
[Sylhare](https://github.com/sylhare). The beautiful Moon theme had the
background image but not much space for an intro message. Type on Strap could
accomodate a message but the background image does not cover the whole viewport,
and again the home page has the blog on it. At this point i still intended to
tweak one of these themes to accomodate my needs, and in trying to do so i
realized that i didn't understand enough about the process to do so. That's why
i decided i needed to build my own from scratch, in order to grasp the whole
workflow of site generation.

My journey to this point had taught me that responsiveness is as crucial as it
is hard to achieve, so i chose to base the theme on
[bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/). I found a template close to what i
wanted, the amazing [Cover](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.3/examples/cover/)
by [Mark Otto](https://twitter.com/mdo), and started dimantling it. This theme
got something from each of these. I want to thank each of these
developers/designers, and the Open Source community for sharing their work with
all of us. You really make this world a better place! 
